docs-dev/project/current/v.0.2.0/tasks/04-define-session-logging.md, before:

---
id: 04
status: pending
priority: medium
dependencies: [01, 03] # Depends on unified system and guides being updated
---

# Task Title: Define Session Logging Command and Process

## Description
Define a command and process for logging key information after each significant interaction with the coding agent. This log should facilitate context restoration and review of the development process.

## Implementation Details / Notes
- **Define the Command:** Propose a command name (e.g., `log-session`, `capture-context`). Document its purpose and expected inputs/outputs in a new `.md` file within `docs-dev/commands/`.
- **Define Log Content:** Specify the structure and content of the session log file. It must include:
    - Unique Identifier (Timestamp + sequence/hash).
    - Summary of User Request (Rephrased concisely).
    - Summary of Agent Action/Response.
    - A generated "Context Loading Prompt" to resume the current state in a new chat.
- **Define Storage:** Session logs should be stored within the current release directory, e.g., `docs-dev/project/current/{release_dir}/sessions/`.
- **Define Session Boundary:** Clarify when a new session log is created versus when the last one is updated (e.g., new distinct command vs. follow-up clarification).
- **Context Loading Prompt Generation:** Detail the requirements for generating the context loading prompt. It should reference key files/directories modified or discussed, and the current task/goal.
- **Integration:** Describe how this command fits into the overall workflow defined in `docs/unified-workflow-guide.md`.
- **Tooling (Optional):** Consider if any helper script is needed or if it's purely a documentation/manual process initially.

## Acceptance Criteria / Test Strategy
- A new command file (e.g., `docs-dev/commands/log-session.md`) exists, clearly defining the process.
- The standard format for session log files is documented.
- The process for generating the context loading prompt is described.
- The rules for creating vs. updating logs are defined.
- The updated workflow guide incorporates the session logging step.

Commit message:

docs(dev): Streamline workflow documentation for v0.2.0
This release focuses on improving the internal development workflow by integrating research-backed best practices. Key changes include updating guides to emphasize planning first, incorporating feedback cycles with LLM assistance, and adding placeholders for potential future enhancements like complexity analysis tools.  The scope is primarily focused on documenting these improvements.

docs-dev/project/current/v.0.2.0/tasks/04-define-session-logging.md, after:

---
id: 04
status: pending
priority: medium
dependencies: [01, 03] # Depends on unified system and guides being updated
---

# Task Title: Define Session Logging Command and Process

## Description
Define a command and process for logging key information after each significant interaction with the coding agent. This log should facilitate context restoration and review of the development process.

## Implementation Details / Notes
- **Define the Command:** Propose a command name (e.g., `log-session`, `capture-context`). Document its purpose and expected inputs/outputs in a new `.md` file within `docs-dev/commands/`.
- **Define Log Content:** Specify the structure and content of the session log file. It must include:
    - Unique Identifier (Timestamp + sequence/hash).
    - Summary of User Request (Rephrased concisely).
    - Summary of Agent Action/Response.
    - A generated "Context Loading Prompt" to resume the current state in a new chat.
- **Define Storage:** Session logs should be stored within the current release directory, e.g., `docs-dev/project/current/{release_dir}/sessions/`.
- **Define Session Boundary:** Clarify when a new session log is created versus when the last one is updated (e.g., new distinct command vs. follow-up clarification).
- **Context Loading Prompt Generation:** Detail the requirements for generating the context loading prompt. It should reference key files/directories modified or discussed, and the current task/goal.
- **Integration:** Describe how this command fits into the overall workflow defined in `docs/unified-workflow-guide.md`.
- **Tooling (Optional):** Consider if any helper script is needed or if it's purely a documentation/manual process initially.
*(Note: v0.2.0 scope is primarily focused on defining the command and process documentation. Implementation of helper scripts/tooling may be deferred.)*

## Acceptance Criteria / Test Strategy
- A new command file (e.g., `docs-dev/commands/log-session.md`) exists, clearly defining the process.
- The standard format for session log files is documented.
- The process for generating the context loading prompt is described.
- The rules for creating vs. updating logs are defined.
- The updated workflow guide incorporates the session logging step.
